# EmergingTrends
Looking into Artificial Intelligence 

In this term I did some exploration into how artificial intellegence learns through neural networks.  On this particular project the AI pirate is programmed to navigate a maze from the start to the goal.  I was given the code that creates the maze from an array, positions the pirate and moves the pirate, basing its move on the terrian around it.  It confirms if a move is legal or not; if so it will move the pirate in the direction and update the pirates position checking if it reached the goal.  A reward value is given.  There is also code given to take the reward and the state and the previous state and generate the next best thought action.  The model for the neural network is given as well as the maze layout.  What I coded was a random starting position for the pirate to start in the maze at the begining of each traing session, and for the pirate to take an action based on what it had learned so far, by what is passed into the state, reward anyliser provided, or take a random action one out of ten times.  I programmed it to count the number of episodes and wins and losses, and to train after each epoch or game.  It calculates when it is winning every game for a considerable period of time and concludes that it is done training -- that it has reached a 100% win rate.

As a computer scientist I seek to improve society by helping in areas that increase quality of life, and automate things that can be tedious and hard to do for humans.  For example: reading and diagnosing medical conditions from scans is very time consuming from what I understand.  In addition things can easily be overlooked.  As a computer scientist this is a perfect area for a smart program to step in that has the copassity to be thourough and take the time, without needing to sleep or eat, and do these scans.  When an abnorality comes up that scan can be flagged for a doctor to review.  As a computer scientist I approach problems with an open mind.  Not every solution looks the exact same but with my experience I stay positive.  I am not afraid to research and learn new things, and often look back to work I have done in the past for ideas and reminders as well.  With all these tools things seem to come together, however if I get stuck I am not so prideful that I won't ask for help.

For the end user and the organizations I serve I have a responsibility to give them the best service I can.  However, I got to let them know when things are not on the up and up.  Users have a right to have their data protected and must give their consent through user agreements properly.  Orginizations have a right to grow new technologies and be creative.  I must do my best to honor both, and maintian trust.  
